Code Book for the tidy.txt dataset
==================================
Table of Contents
1. Raw Data Overview
2. Raw Data Feature Summary
3. Tidy Data Overview
4. Tidy Data Feature Summary

## 1. Raw Data Overview
The [UCI HAR Data] (https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) contains data generated by the embedded accelerometer and gyroscope. Training and testing data sets are located in two seperate folders and features are splited from the dataset.

## 2. Raw Data Feature Summary
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals **tAcc-XYZ** and **tGyro-XYZ**. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

* tBodyAcc-XYZ
* tGravityAcc-XYZ
* tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* tBodyGyro-XYZ
* tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
* tBodyAccMag
* tGravityAccMag
* tBodyAccJerkMag
* tBodyGyroMag
* tBodyGyroJerkMag
* fBodyAcc-XYZ
* fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* fBodyGyro-XYZ
* fBodyAccMag
* fBodyAccJerkMag
* fBodyGyroMag
* fBodyGyroJerkMag

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

* mean(): Mean value
* std(): Standard deviation
* mad(): Median absolute deviation 
* max(): Largest value in array
* min(): Smallest value in array
* sma(): Signal magnitude area
* energy(): Energy measure. Sum of the squares divided by the number of values. 
* iqr(): Interquartile range 
* entropy(): Signal entropy
* arCoeff(): Autorregresion coefficients with Burg order equal to 4
* correlation(): correlation coefficient between two signals
* maxInds(): index of the frequency component with largest magnitude
* meanFreq(): Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency
* skewness(): skewness of the frequency domain signal 
* kurtosis(): kurtosis of the frequency domain signal 
* bandsEnergy(): Energy of a frequency interval within the 64 bins of the FFT of each window.
* angle(): Angle between to vectors.

Additional vectors obtained by averaging the signals in a signal window sample. These are used on the angle() variable:

* gravityMean
* tBodyAccMean
* tBodyAccJerkMean
* tBodyGyroMean
* tBodyGyroJerkMean

## 3. Tidy Data Overview
Given the raw data, a list of steps are undertanken to transform it to a tidy dataset. The list is as follows:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

## 4. Tidy Data Feature Summary
There are 88 features in the tidy data. 2 of them are categorical "Subject" and "Activity" while the rest are continuous data. Only the raw features regarding mean or standar deviation are selected for the tidy data. That is, the following basic features with mean and std. applied.

* tBodyAcc-XYZ
* tGravityAcc-XYZ
* tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* tBodyGyro-XYZ
* tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
* tBodyAccMag
* tGravityAccMag
* tBodyAccJerkMag
* tBodyGyroMag
* tBodyGyroJerkMag
* fBodyAcc-XYZ
* fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* fBodyGyro-XYZ
* fBodyAccMag
* fBodyAccJerkMag
* fBodyGyroMag
* fBodyGyroJerkMag

For example, tBodyAcc_Mean_X means this variable has been applied mean onto the X axis of body accerlattion.

## 5. Tidy Data Feature List
1. Subject (Categorical): 
1 - 30 representing No. 1 - No. 3 subjects

2. Activity (Categorical)
* walking
* walking_upstairs
* walking_downstairs
* sitting
* standing
* laying

3. The rest of the variables (See the description for the raw data in Section 2). The mean and std. variables are averaged by each activity and each subject. All the values are normalised with a bound from -1 to 1.
