Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course-Project
========================================

## 1. Introduction
This repository contains the files relating to the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data course project. These files include a R script called run_anlaysis.R that can be run as long as the Samsung data. A tidy dataset (tidy.txt)  that aggregates the numeric values grouping by subject and activity is also attached. Also, a README.md introduction and a code book (CodeBook.md) are included in the repository that describe the raw data, the steps of transformation, as well as a guide to the variables and values in the dataset.

## 2. Raw Data
An experiment describes 30 people performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. The [UCI HAR Dataset] (https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip) contains data generated by the embedded accelerometer and gyroscope. A full description can be found in the [UCI website] (http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

## 3. Steps of Transformation
The code is written in R Studio (Version 0.98.1060) with R (Version 3.1.1) in a Macintosh Maverick system.

1. Download and extract the zip file into a local directory.
2. Set the working directory to the extracted folder directory.
3. Read the training specific files (train/subject_train.txt, train/y_train.txt, train/X_train.txt) and testing specific files (test/subject_test.txt, test/y_test.txt, test/X_test.txt) seperately.
4. Combine these files together and write into the allData data frame.
5. Read the features.txt and attach it to the allData as the column names.
6. Search for the mean and std keywords in the column names and get the positions of these resulting columns.
7. Create a dataset that only in these resulting columns.
8. Replace the Activity from numeric values into descriptive text values shown in the activity_labels.txt.
9. Rename the columns names. 
The rules are
* Initial letter capitalised.
* Remove ()
* "-" and "," to "_"
10. Aggregate each variable for each activity and subject and put the result in a new dataset called "tidy"
11. Write the dataset into a tab delimited text file called tidy.txt
